Force play timezone (#11433)
netdata/netdata: docs/dashboard/visualization-date-and-time-controls.mdx

---
title: "Visualization date and time controls"
description: "Netdata's dashboard features powerful date visualization controls that include a time control (play, pause, force play), a timezone selector and a rich date and timeframe selector, with useful defaults and rich customization, to help you narrow your focus when troubleshooting issues or anomalies."
type: how-to
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/netdata/netdata/edit/master/docs/dashboard/visualization-date-and-time-controls.mdx
---

# Visualization date and time controls

## Date and time selector

### Pick timeframes to visualize

> While [panning through time and zooming in/out](/docs/dashboard/interact-charts.mdx) from charts is helpful when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While [panning through time and zooming in/out](/docs/dashboard/interact-charts.mdx) from charts it is helpful
```

> you're looking a recent history, or want to do granular troubleshooting, what if you want to see metrics from 6 hours

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for looking at recent history, or for granular troubleshooting, if you want to see metrics for the previous 6 hours
```

Author: it was missing a when, don't now how it gotten taken out, so it should read:

"While panning through time and zooming in/out from charts is helpful when you're looking a recent history..." I think that was why you suggested the ".. for looking"

#### Choose a specific interval

Beneath the Quick Selector is an input field and dropdown you use in combination to select a specific timeframe of
minutes, hours, days, or months. Enter a number and choose the appropriate unit of time, then click **Apply**.

#### Choose multiple days

Use the calendar to select multiple days. Click on a date to begin the timeframe selection, then an ending date. The
timeframe begins at noon on the beginning and end dates. Click **Apply** to see your selected multi-day timeframe.

## Time controls

The time control provides you the following options: **Play**, **Pause** and **Force Play**.
* **Play** - the content of the page will be automatically refreshed while this is in the foreground
* **Pause** - the content of the page isn't refreshed due to a manual request to pause it or, for example, when your investigating data on a 
chart (cursor is on top of a chart)
* **Force Play** - the content of the page will be automatically refreshed even if this is in the background

With this, we aim to bring more clarity and allow you to distinguish if the content you are looking at is live or historical and also allow you

>  to always refresh the content of the page when the tabs are on the background. 

Reviewer: >
```suggestion
 to always refresh the content of the page when the tabs are in the background. 
```

Main use cases for **Force Play**:

> * You use a terminal or deployment tools to do changes in your infra and want to see immediately, Netdata is on the background, the impact 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You use a terminal or deployment tools to do changes in your infra and want to see immediately, Netdata is in the background, displaying the impact 
```

of these changes
* You want to have Netdata on the background, example displayed on a TV, to constantly see metrics through dashboards or to watch the alert 
status

![The time control with Play, Pause and 
Force Play](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82235632/129206460-03c47d0d-1a5b-428a-b972-473718b74bdb.png)

## Timezone selector

> With the timezone select you have the ability to change the timezone on Netdata Cloud. More often than not are 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the timezone select, you have the ability to change the timezone on Netdata Cloud. More often than not are, there's a distribution in different timezones, requiring association. 
```

Author: here it was missing "teams", so it should read "More often than not team are distributed in different timezones and they need to collaborate."

> With the timezone select you have the ability to change the timezone both in Agent and on Netdata Cloud. More often than not are 

Reviewer 2: @hugovalente-pm the timezone on the agent will take a bit longer

Author: Will rectify this and update the PR, thanks

> distributed in different timezones and they need to collaborate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Our goal is to make it easier for you and your teams to troubleshoot on your timezone preference and communicate easily 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal is to make it easier for you and your teams to troubleshoot based on your timezone preference and communicate easily 
```

> timezones and timeframes without need to be concerned about the specificity of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with varying timezones and timeframes without the need to be concerned about their specificity.
```
